Now the major contribution of this section was to give you a tool to
protect shared data from concurrent access by multiple threads.
A mutex can do this for you,
and you now know that it comes along in different flavors.
You can use it directly or you can use it in a timed version with a delayed response that
can prevent the threats from locking forever when
they cannot get access to a shared resources.
But mutexes can also be dangerous because when a programmer forgets to unlock
it or when the program crashes in between calls to lock and unlock,
the program principally can block forever and
your program might freeze and the user can't do anything with it anymore.
Such an error is called a deadlock.
Another form of deadlock can also occur when two mutexes at
the same time can be locked independently of each other in arbitrary order.
So even though mutexes give us a new possibility,
there are also dangers involved with using mutexes which we have to avoid carefully.
In the next section, we will look at ways to mitigate
those dangers and avoid deadlocks all together.
So see you there.